.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-backup-undelete - Resurrect one or more soft-deleted backups (removes tombstone marker)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage backup undelete   [\&...] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
undelete removes the tombstone marker for the named backup(s),
making them visible again to \fBbackup list\fR and \fBrestore\fR\&.

.PP
Use this to recover from an over-aggressive delete or cascade
before chunk-GC runs. The window is bounded: once
\fBrepo gc --apply\fR has reclaimed the chunks the manifest
references, undelete will succeed but the resulting backup will
fail to restore. Run \fBbackup undelete\fR BEFORE the next
GC cycle.

.PP
Idempotent. An undelete of a manifest that's already live is a
no-op; no error, no audit entry. Multiple IDs may be passed —
the operation walks them in argv order and reports each one's
outcome.

.PP
Pairs with \fBbackup delete --cascade\fR: the cascade response's
\fBcascade_deleted\fR slice (or the equivalent audit body
field) is exactly what you pass back to \fBundelete\fR to
unwind a wrong cascade.

.PP
Restorability pre-flight (--check-chunks):
  --check-chunks  Stat every chunk referenced by each manifest
                  BEFORE removing its tombstone. Refuses with
                  conflict.chunks_missing if any required chunk
                  is absent — telling you the manifest can't be
                  meaningfully restored even if you resurrect it.
                  Same primitive that backs verify --existence-only.
  --skip-missing  When --check-chunks fires on multi-ID input,
                  skip the manifests with missing chunks and
                  undelete the rest. Without --skip-missing, the
                  whole operation refuses up-front (atomic
                  semantics — same posture as cascade delete).


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--check-chunks\fP[=false]
	refuse to undelete a manifest whose chunks have been GC'd (Stat-only pre-flight; same primitive as \fBverify --existence-only\fR)

.PP
\fB--force\fP[=false]
	resurrect even when chunks are gone — recover the metadata of an un-restorable backup (skips the restorability pre-flight; forensic use)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for undelete

.PP
\fB--reason\fP=""
	free-form reason captured in the audit chain (recommended for forensics)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--skip-missing\fP[=false]
	when --check-chunks fails on some IDs, undelete the rest (default: refuse the whole batch)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-backup(1)\fP
