.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-kms-verify - Verify the encryption envelope on every backup manifest in the repo


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage kms verify [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
kms verify walks every committed (non-tombstoned) backup manifest
in the repo and asks the only question that matters for at-rest
encryption health: "would the operator's current keyring decrypt
this backup if we had to restore it right now?".

.PP
For each manifest, kms verify:

.RS
.IP "  1." 5
Validates the manifest's Ed25519 signature against the local
 public key (manifests that don't verify get the loudest
 classification: signature_failed).
.IP "  2." 5
Reads the encryption block. Manifests with no encryption block
 are counted as 'unencrypted' (NOT a failure — that's the
 operator's policy call).
.IP "  3." 5
Resolves the KEK by KEKRef. By default the resolver is the
 local keystore, which knows the "local:default" ref. With
 --kek-ref + --kek-file the operator points at an explicit
 KEK file for one ref (post-rotation or per-tenant audits).
.IP "  4." 5
Tries to unwrap the wrapped_dek with the resolved KEK. A
 successful unwrap is "ok"; a tag-failure is "unwrap_failed".

.RE

.PP
Chunks are NOT fetched, decrypted, or hashed. For per-chunk
integrity verification of one specific backup, use
\fBpg_hardstorage verify <deployment> [backup-id]\fR\&. The fleet-wide
envelope check this command runs is O(manifest count); per-chunk
verification is O(unique chunks per backup) and orders of magnitude
more expensive.

.PP
Read-only by construction — safe to run against a read-only repo,
a WORM-locked repo, or production at any cadence.

.PP
Exit code is 0 when every encrypted manifest unwraps cleanly (or
every manifest is unencrypted). Exit code 9 (verify failed) is
returned when at least one encrypted manifest can't be decrypted
with the resolved KEK, or any manifest signature failed.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--deployment\fP=""
	restrict the walk to one deployment (default: all deployments)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for verify

.PP
\fB--kek-file\fP=""
	path to KEK bytes for --kek-ref (32 bytes raw); required when --kek-ref is set, not the local-keystore ref, and the local keyring can't resolve the ref

.PP
\fB--kek-ref\fP=""
	restrict to manifests whose KEKRef matches this string (default: all kek_refs)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-kms(1)\fP
