.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-gameday-run - Run one chaos scenario, return structured Pass/Fail


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage gameday run  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Run one chaos scenario from the registry.

.PP
v0.1 scenarios document the invariant they assert and (when run with
--dry-run) the planned fault injection; runtime drive of the kill
signal / 503-storm / Patroni switchover lands alongside the
supervisor's child-control surface and the storage plugin's
fault-injection middleware.

.PP
The CLI shape is locked: an operator wiring 'gameday run agent_kill'
into a quarterly cron today gets the same invocation when lands.

.PP
Use 'gameday list' to see registered scenarios.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--deployment\fP=""
	deployment to target (scenario-dependent)

.PP
\fB--dry-run\fP[=false]
	print the planned action; don't inject the fault

.PP
\fB--fault-duration\fP=0s
	how long the fault is held active (scenario default applies if 0)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for run

.PP
\fB--recover-within\fP=0s
	upper bound for recovery (scenario default applies if 0)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (scenario-dependent)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-gameday(1)\fP
