.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-server - Run the control plane


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage server [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Run the pg_hardstorage control plane.

.PP
v0.1 cut: HTTP/REST listener with mTLS + bearer-token auth, an
in-memory agent registry, repo-walking handlers for deployments +
backups. adds the PostgreSQL-backed job registry: pass
--coord-backend pg --coord-dsn 'postgres://...' to persist dispatch
state across restarts and to run multiple control planes against the
same database (FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED gives atomic claims).

.PP
The control plane never uses an embedded database (no SQLite, no
BoltDB). State is either in-memory (default) or in a PostgreSQL the
operator already runs.

.PP
Endpoints (all under /v1/):

.PP
GET  /healthz                            (no auth)
  GET  /readyz                             (no auth; per-repo reachability)
  GET  /version
  GET  /deployments
  GET  /deployments//backups
  GET  /agents [?include_inactive=true]
  POST /agents/heartbeat

.PP
The flags below override the config file's server: block. Use
--config to point at a YAML; flag overrides win.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--client-ca\fP=""
	client CA bundle (enables mTLS with verify)

.PP
\fB--coord-backend\fP="memory"
	coordination backend for jobs: memory (default, ephemeral) | pg (persistent, multi-instance HA)

.PP
\fB--coord-dsn\fP=""
	PostgreSQL DSN when --coord-backend pg (postgres://user:pass@host/db?sslmode=...)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for server

.PP
\fB--listen\fP="127.0.0.1:8443"
	bind address (host:port)

.PP
\fB--max-concurrent-jobs\fP=0
	cap on jobs running at once across the fleet (0 = unlimited; backpressure so a burst can't storm storage/PostgreSQL). For multi-control-plane HA set the same value on every instance.

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=[]
	repository URL to index (repeatable)

.PP
\fB--tls-cert\fP=""
	TLS server certificate (PEM)

.PP
\fB--tls-key\fP=""
	TLS server key (PEM)

.PP
\fB--token-file\fP=""
	file containing the bearer token (single-line)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP
