.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-integrity - Continuous-attestation runs: re-verify manifests + chunks, sign the report


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage integrity [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Run periodic integrity scans of the repository.  Each run
re-verifies every committed manifest's signature, confirms its
referenced chunks are still present, and (optionally) re-fetches
a sample of chunks for plaintext SHA-256 verification.  The
result is signed with the operator's key and stored in the repo
under integrity/runs/\&.json so an auditor can prove the repo
was intact at any historical attest time.

.PP
Strategies (cost vs assurance):

.PP
manifests-only          fastest; just re-verify ed25519 signatures
  presence (default)      manifests + Stat every referenced chunk
  content-sample N        manifests + Stat all + plaintext-SHA-256 N% sample
  content-full            manifests + Stat all + plaintext-SHA-256 every chunk

.PP
Exit codes:

.PP
0  no issues
  9  found_issues (signature break, missing or mismatched chunks) — exit
     code matches the "verify-failed" namespace; cron will alert.
  6  notfound (run id or strategy target absent)


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for integrity


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-integrity-list(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-integrity-run(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-integrity-show(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-integrity-verify(1)\fP
