.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-restore - Restore a backup to a target directory


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage restore   [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Materialise a committed backup at the given target directory,
and optionally arm point-in-time recovery (PITR).

.PP
The signing keypair is loaded from the resolved keyring directory
(see \fBpg_hardstorage doctor\fR for the exact path); the public key
half is what verifies the manifest signature.

.PP
Refuses to write into a non-empty target unless --force is passed.
Use --preview to inspect what a real restore would do without
touching disk. Use --verify=auto|skip|require to control the post-
restore pg_verifybackup gate.

.PP
PITR (replaying WAL up to a target):
  --to "5 minutes ago"        natural-language relative time
  --to "2026-04-27 09:42 UTC" absolute time, parsed predictably
  --to-lsn 0/3000028          recover up to (and including) this LSN
  --to-name my-restore-point  recover up to a named restore point
  --to-action pause|promote|shutdown   default pause (safest)
  --to-timeline latest|    default 'latest'

.PP
When any of --to / --to-lsn / --to-name is set, recovery.signal is
dropped in the target dir and a recovery\fItarget\fP* block is appended
to postgresql.auto.conf. The restore_command points back at this
binary's wal-fetch shim.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--chain-staging-root\fP=""
	directory chain restores use to materialise links (default: derived path under TMPDIR; preserved across retries for resume)

.PP
\fB--control-plane\fP=""
	control-plane base URL — when set, the command is dispatched there instead of running locally

.PP
\fB--control-plane-ca\fP=""
	PEM file pinning the control plane's TLS server certificate

.PP
\fB--control-plane-client-cert\fP=""
	client certificate for mTLS to the control plane

.PP
\fB--control-plane-client-key\fP=""
	client key for mTLS to the control plane

.PP
\fB--control-plane-poll-secs\fP=1
	poll cadence (seconds) for /v1/jobs/

.PP
\fB--control-plane-token-file\fP=""
	file containing the bearer token for the control plane

.PP
\fB--force\fP[=false]
	allow overwriting a non-empty target directory

.PP
\fB--force-foreign\fP[=false]
	with --force, also overwrite a target that is a DIFFERENT cluster (pg_control system identifier mismatch); the default refuses, to guard against a wrong --target path

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for restore

.PP
\fB--kms-config\fP=[]
	cloud KMS provider config for restoring a cloud-KMS-encrypted backup (e.g. region=eu-central-1,endpoint=...); empty uses ambient credentials

.PP
\fB--preview\fP[=false]
	plan the restore but do not write anything

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (file://, s3://, ...) — must already exist (required)

.PP
\fB--require-threshold-attestation\fP=""
	refuse to restore unless a k-of-n threshold attestation under this roster ID is present and pins this manifest's body hash; pairs with \fBpg_hardstorage threshold attest sign backup_manifest <backup-id>\fR

.PP
\fB--reset-chain-staging\fP[=false]
	wipe the chain-staging directory before starting (force a fresh materialise even if a previous attempt's links are present)

.PP
\fB--skip-gap-check\fP[=false]
	bypass the+ WAL-gap pre-flight (operator override; the override is audit-logged)

.PP
\fB--tablespace-mapping\fP=[]
	redirect a tablespace from OLDDIR to NEWDIR (repeatable; both paths must be absolute). Plain restores rewrite the manifest's tablespace_map; chain restores pass through to pg_combinebackup. Example: --tablespace-mapping=/mnt/ssd/ts_fast=/var/lib/pg/ts_fast

.PP
\fB--target\fP=""
	directory where the data dir will be materialised (required)

.PP
\fB--to\fP=""
	recover up to this time (natural language or RFC3339)

.PP
\fB--to-action\fP="pause"
	action when target reached: pause|promote|shutdown

.PP
\fB--to-exclusive\fP[=false]
	stop recovery just BEFORE the target (default: just after)

.PP
\fB--to-lsn\fP=""
	recover up to this LSN (e.g. 0/3000028)

.PP
\fB--to-name\fP=""
	recover up to this PostgreSQL named restore point

.PP
\fB--to-timeline\fP="latest"
	target timeline: 'latest' or an explicit TLI number

.PP
\fB--verify\fP="auto"
	post-restore pg_verifybackup gate: auto|skip|require

.PP
\fB--verify-restore\fP="auto"
	post-restore CLUSTER-START smoke test: off|auto|required|dump (catches issue-#7-class empty-dirs / permissions / startup failures that pg_verifybackup cannot)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP
