.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-llm - LLM helper — grounded assistant with skill files, mandatory preview, full audit


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage llm [chat|ask|explain|skill] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
LLM helper.  Drops into an interactive chat session when run
with no subcommand; one-shot Q&A via 'llm ask'; CLI-explanation
via 'llm explain'; skill management via 'llm skill ...'.

.PP
Configuration — env vars override the YAML, flags override env:

.PP
endpoint:
    --endpoint 
    PG_HARDSTORAGE_URL          (canonical, project-branded)
    OPENAI_BASE_URL             (cross-tool standard, accepted)
    llm.endpoint in pg_hardstorage.yaml

.PP
api key:
    PG_HARDSTORAGE_LLM_KEY      (canonical, project-branded)
    OPENAI_API_KEY              (cross-tool standard, accepted)
    PG_HARDSTORAGE_LLM_API_KEY  (legacy spelling, still honoured)
    llm.api_key_file in pg_hardstorage.yaml (re-read on every
                                              call — rotation
                                              survives without
                                              restart)
    llm.api_key in pg_hardstorage.yaml (inline; discouraged)

.PP
model:
    --model 
    PG_HARDSTORAGE_LLM_MODEL    (canonical, project-branded)
    OPENAI_MODEL                (cross-tool standard, accepted)
    llm.model in pg_hardstorage.yaml
    provider default (gpt-4o-mini for openai)

.PP
When pointing PG_HARDSTORAGE_URL at a non-OpenAI endpoint
  (Anthropic, Azure, Ollama, vLLM, ...) you MUST set the model
  too — gpt-4o-mini won't exist there.  A 404 from the upstream
  is returned with an actionable hint naming the env var.

.PP
When NO key resolves anywhere, the CLI falls back to the 'mock'
provider — replies are stub echoes, not real AI.  The chat
banner is loud about this so it isn't silent.

.PP
Point 'endpoint:' at any OpenAI-compatible service:
  - api.openai.com (default)
  - https://api.anthropic.com/v1 (Anthropic via OpenAI-compat)
  - http://127.0.0.1:11434/v1    (local Ollama)
  - Azure OpenAI / vLLM / OpenRouter / LiteLLM, ...

.PP
See share/pg_hardstorage.sample.yaml for a fully annotated
config.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--endpoint\fP=""
	provider endpoint override

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for llm

.PP
\fB--mcp-server\fP[=false]
	run as a Model Context Protocol stdio server (for Claude Desktop / Cursor / Zed / Goose / Cline integration)

.PP
\fB--model\fP=""
	model id override

.PP
\fB--provider\fP=""
	LLM provider override (default: env / config / 'openai' if key in scope, else 'mock')

.PP
\fB--skill\fP="ask"
	skill to use (ask, explain, restore, incident)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-llm-ask(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-llm-chat(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-llm-doctor(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-llm-explain(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-llm-export-session(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-llm-history(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-llm-skill(1)\fP
