.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-recovery-readiness - Single-screen recovery-readiness scorecard for one deployment


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage recovery readiness  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
recovery readiness aggregates many signals (latest backup age,
RTO estimate, verification freshness, KEK reachability, WAL
coverage) into one structured report with a traffic-light verdict
(ready / ready_with_warnings / not_ready / no_backups).

.PP
Tunable thresholds:
  --rpo-seconds N     RPO target; observed-vs-target comparison.
                      Default: read from the deployment's SLO
                      config when present.
  --rto-seconds N     RTO target.  Default: same.
  --assumed-throughput  Bytes/sec used for the RTO estimate
                      (e.g. "160MiB", "1GiB", "100MB"); default
                      160 MiB/s.
  --staleness 7d      Verification record older than this is "stale".

.PP
Skip flags suppress optional sections:
  --no-verification    skip the verification.json freshness check
  --no-encryption      skip the KEK-reachability check (e.g. when
                       the operator runs offline without the keyring)
  --no-wal             skip the WAL-coverage walk

.PP
Output formats:
  --format json     (default) — JSON body, the v1 contract.
  --format markdown — forensics-grade GFM Markdown rendering.

.PP
Read-only; safe at any cadence.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--assumed-throughput\fP=""
	bytes/sec for the RTO estimate (e.g. 160MiB, 1GiB); default 160 MiB/s

.PP
\fB--format\fP="json"
	output format for the report body: json | markdown

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for readiness

.PP
\fB--no-encryption\fP[=false]
	skip the KEK reachability check

.PP
\fB--no-verification\fP[=false]
	skip the verification freshness check

.PP
\fB--no-wal\fP[=false]
	skip the WAL coverage check

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--rpo-seconds\fP=0
	RPO target in seconds (0 = no target check)

.PP
\fB--rto-seconds\fP=0
	RTO target in seconds (0 = no target check)

.PP
\fB--staleness\fP=""
	verification staleness window (e.g. 7d, 24h); default 7d


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-recovery(1)\fP
