.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-logs - Tail the pg_hardstorage agent's systemd journal


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage logs [] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Wraps journalctl(1) against the agent's systemd unit. With no
deployment argument, follows the singleton \fBpg_hardstorage.service\fR
unit; with a deployment, follows the templated
\fBpg_hardstorage@<deployment>.service\fR unit (the SPEC's
multi-instance pattern).

.PP
Options:

.PP
--follow / -f      tail forward (default: print last 100 lines)
  --lines N          how many lines to print initially (default 100)
  --since DUR-OR-TS  start from this point ("24h", "yesterday",
                     RFC3339); passed verbatim to journalctl
  --unit NAME        override the auto-derived unit name

.PP
Requires journalctl on PATH. On non-systemd hosts (macOS, BSD,
some container images) this command exits with usage.no_journalctl;
read the agent's stdout directly or wire a logging plugin.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--follow\fP[=false]
	tail forward indefinitely (Ctrl-C to stop)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for logs

.PP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--lines\fP=100
	how many lines to print initially

.PP
\fB--since\fP=""
	start at this point (24h / yesterday / RFC3339); passed to journalctl

.PP
\fB--unit\fP=""
	override the auto-derived systemd unit name


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP
