.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-wal-push - Archive one segment via archive_command (PG-invoked)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage wal push   [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Push one PostgreSQL WAL segment file into the repository.

.PP
PG invokes this command from archive_command during normal operation:

.PP
archive_command = 'pg_hardstorage wal push db1 %p --repo \&'

.PP
The %p substitution is a path on the PG host; we read the file, chunk
it through the CAS, and commit a segment manifest atomically. Re-pushes
of an already-committed segment are no-ops.

.PP
system_identifier — stamped on every segment manifest so cross-cluster
repo contamination is detectable — is derived in this order:

.RS
.IP "  1." 5
--system-identifier  if supplied (zero-cost path).
 This is the unsigned-decimal value pg_control_system() reports
 (SELECT system_identifier FROM pg_control_system()) — the SAME
 form rule 2 derives from the segment header. Passing it in any
 other base would mismatch header-derived pushes and trip a
 spurious splitbrain.system_identifier_mismatch.
.IP "  2." 5
Otherwise read directly from the segment file's first-page
 XLogLongPageHeader.xlp_sysid — every WAL segment PG writes
 carries it.  No libpq round-trip per call.
.IP "  3." 5
Otherwise --pg-connection  if supplied (legacy path).

.RE

.PP
The default canonical archive_command shape — repo only, no extra
flags — works because of (2).

.PP
Transparent Data Encryption (TDE):

.PP
Pass --tde when the source PostgreSQL has TDE enabled (CYBERTEC
  PGEE, pg_tde, EDB TDE).  Under TDE the segment file on disk is
  ciphertext, so the on-segment header read (precedence rule 2
  above) is meaningless — it would either fail outright OR return
  bogus bytes that happen to look header-shaped.  --tde skips
  rule 2 unconditionally; you MUST supply --system-identifier or
  --pg-connection.

.PP
Exit codes:
  0  - segment archived (or already present)
  >0 - error; PG will retry per archive_timeout


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for push

.PP
\fB--kek\fP=""
	KEK reference for WAL encryption under a cloud KMS (e.g. aws-kms://...); MUST match the deployment's base-backup KEKRef. Local-KEK encryption is automatic when a keyring kek.bin is present.

.PP
\fB--kms-config\fP=[]
	cloud KMS provider config (region/endpoint/credentials); only consulted when --kek is a cloud scheme — the same values base backups use.

.PP
\fB--pg-connection\fP=""
	libpq connection string — used once to fetch the system_identifier

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (file://, s3://, ...) — must already exist (required)

.PP
\fB--system-identifier\fP=""
	explicit pg_control system_identifier (skip libpq round-trip)

.PP
\fB--tde\fP[=false]
	the source PG has Transparent Data Encryption enabled; skip on-segment header parsing (requires --system-identifier or --pg-connection). See docs/explanation/tde-awareness.md.


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-wal(1)\fP
