.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-kms-shred - Irreversibly destroy the local KEK (n-of-m approval REQUIRED)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage kms shred [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Destroy the local key-encryption key at the resolved keyring
directory. After this completes, every backup whose DEK was wrapped
with this KEK is permanently unrecoverable — that's the point.

.PP
The op is gated by THREE independent safety mechanisms:

.RS
.IP "  1." 5
A mandatory n-of-m approval workflow. The approval's Op must
 be \fBkms.shred\fR and its Target must be the canonical keyring
 directory path; shred is refused at the gate otherwise.
.IP "  2." 5
A typed-confirmation flag (--confirm-keyring) where the
 operator must repeat the literal keyring directory path. A
 compromised credential alone cannot drive shred without
 knowing the exact path.
.IP "  3." 5
An acknowledgement flag (--yes) for non-interactive use.

.RE

.PP
Before shredding, the command enumerates every backup manifest in
the repo whose DEK is wrapped by this KEK — operators see the
exact scope of what becomes unrecoverable, captured in the audit
chain alongside the shred event.

.PP
Use --dry-run to enumerate the affected backups WITHOUT destroying
the KEK or requiring the approval / typed-keyring / yes gates.
Dry-run is the operator-friendly preview path: "show me what
shredding would destroy, so I can decide whether to ask for an
approval at all."  Dry-run never writes to the audit chain (it
performs no state change worth recording) and never touches the
KEK file.

.PP
To destroy provider-managed keys (AWS KMS, GCP KMS, Vault Transit),
use the provider's own destruction primitives — those have their
own cooldown windows + audit trails that this binary doesn't
attempt to reproduce.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--confirm-keyring\fP=""
	the literal keyring directory path; must match the resolved keyring (defence against compromised credentials)

.PP
\fB--dry-run\fP[=false]
	preview the affected-backup scope without destroying the KEK or requiring approval / typed-keyring / yes gates

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for shred

.PP
\fB--reason\fP=""
	free-form reason captured in the audit chain (e.g. "GDPR Art. 17 request #4421")

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL the approval lives in (required)

.PP
\fB--require-approval\fP=""
	approval request ID — REQUIRED (kms shred refuses without an approved n-of-m gate)

.PP
\fB--yes\fP[=false]
	acknowledge that this operation is irreversible (still requires --require-approval and --confirm-keyring)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-kms(1)\fP
