.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-notify-add - Add a sink to pg_hardstorage.yaml


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage notify add  [--name ] [--set key=value ...] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Append a sink to the configured list. The plugin argument is
required; --name defaults to the plugin name.

.PP
Common configurations:

.PP
notify add slack    --set webhook_url=https://hooks.slack.com/services/T/B/X
  notify add webhook  --name ops-pager --set url=https://ops.example.com/hook
  notify add syslog   --set protocol=tcp --set address=siem.example.com:6514

.PP
--set values are passed verbatim into the sink's config map; the
plugin's builder validates them.

.PP
Re-adding a sink with the same name replaces the existing entry —
unless --no-replace is set, in which case a duplicate name is
rejected.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for add

.PP
\fB--min-severity\fP=""
	convenience for --set min_severity=

.PP
\fB--name\fP=""
	operator-chosen sink name (default: plugin name)

.PP
\fB--set\fP=[]
	key=value pairs to merge into the sink's config (repeatable)

.PP
\fB--yes\fP[=false]
	replace an existing sink with the same name without confirmation


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-notify(1)\fP
