.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-threshold - k-of-n attestations: multi-party signing for highest-assurance manifests


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage threshold [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Manage k-of-n attestations for highest-assurance manifests.

.PP
A roster names n trusted signers and a quorum threshold k.
An attestation records that ≥ k roster members have vouched
for some subject (a backup manifest, an audit anchor, a KEK
rotation, etc.).  Each member signs independently with their
local operator key; signatures aggregate in the repo.

.PP
Operationally:

.EX
# 1. Each operator publishes their pub-key once
pg_hardstorage threshold whoami

# 2. An admin assembles the roster
pg_hardstorage threshold roster create prod-admins \\
    --threshold 2 \\
    --member alice@acme.example:<base64-pubkey> \\
    --member bob@acme.example:<base64-pubkey> \\
    --member charlie@acme.example:<base64-pubkey> \\
    --description "Production cluster admins" \\
    --repo s3://acme

# 3. To attest a backup, each member runs (any order):
pg_hardstorage threshold attest sign \\
    backup_manifest db1.full.20260501T120000Z \\
    --hash <sha256-hex> \\
    --roster prod-admins \\
    --repo s3://acme

# 4. Verify the quorum at any point:
pg_hardstorage threshold attest verify \\
    backup_manifest db1.full.20260501T120000Z \\
    --repo s3://acme
.EE


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for threshold


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-threshold-attest(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-threshold-roster(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-threshold-whoami(1)\fP
