.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-repo-wipe - Permanently delete every object in the repo (n-of-m approval, or --force for non-WORM repos)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage repo wipe  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Permanently delete every object in the named repository — every
backup, every audit event, every approval, every chunk, plus the
HSREPO marker. After this completes, the URL is back to whatever
state the storage backend has for an empty location.

.PP
Two ways to authorise the wipe:

.PP
• n-of-m approval (--require-approval ): the approval's Op
    must be \fBrepo.wipe\fR and its Target must be the repo URL.
    This is the strict, cross-org-coordinated path and the ONLY
    path accepted for a WORM/compliance repo.

.PP
• --force: a single-operator escape hatch for ORDINARY (non-WORM)
    repos — no approval required. Refused on WORM/compliance repos,
    where the n-of-m gate is mandatory by design.

.PP
\fB--yes\fR is required either way — typed confirmation that the op
is irreversible is the always-on second gate.

.PP
Audit emission lands BEFORE the wipe runs (a record of intent),
because the wipe also clears the audit chain that would have held
the post-wipe entry. The CLI's Result body is the operator-side
witness once the audit chain is gone.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--force\fP[=false]
	skip the n-of-m approval on an ordinary (non-WORM) repo; still requires --yes

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for wipe

.PP
\fB--reason\fP=""
	free-form reason captured in the audit chain pre-wipe

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL — must already exist (positional  is also accepted)

.PP
\fB--require-approval\fP=""
	approval request ID for the strict n-of-m gate (mandatory for WORM/compliance repos)

.PP
\fB--yes\fP[=false]
	acknowledge that this op is irreversible (always required)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-repo(1)\fP
