.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-partial-restore - Extract specific tables' files from a backup into --target


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage partial restore  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Selective restore: writes ONLY the heap files (plus TOAST,
visibility-map, and segment siblings) for the requested tables into
--target. Other relations, indexes, control files, and WAL are
skipped.

.PP
Resolution: pass --pg-connection to query pg_class on a live source
DB, OR --relfilenode-map  to a JSON file (the same shape
\fBpartial inspect -o json\fR emits).

.PP
The output is a partial PGDATA layout. Run pg_dump against a
PG instance pointed at --target (or copy files into a matching
running cluster) to get SQL out — that automation is a
follow-up.

.PP
Encryption: encrypted backups are not yet supported by partial
restore. Use full \fBpg_hardstorage restore\fR + pg_dump.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--backup\fP="latest"
	backup ID, or \fBlatest\fR for the most recent committed backup

.PP
\fB--force\fP[=false]
	allow extracting into a non-empty --target

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for restore

.PP
\fB--kms-config\fP=[]
	cloud KMS provider config for a cloud-KMS-encrypted backup (e.g. region=eu-central-1,endpoint=...); empty uses ambient credentials

.PP
\fB--pg-connection\fP=""
	libpq DSN for the live source DB to look up relfilenodes

.PP
\fB--relfilenode-map\fP=""
	path to a JSON map of qualified-name → relfilenode (alternative to --pg-connection)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--tables\fP=""
	comma-separated qualified tables (required, e.g. public.users,public.events)

.PP
\fB--target\fP=""
	target directory where the selected files materialise (required)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-partial(1)\fP
