.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-hold-add - Place a legal hold on a backup


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage hold add   [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
add places a hold marker on the named backup. Held manifests
refuse \fBbackup delete\fR and are skipped by retention; the only
way to remove a hold is the explicit \fBhold remove\fR operation.

.PP
By default holds are indefinite (the legal-hold default — a
regulatory hold sticks around until explicitly released). Pass
--until to set an auto-expiry time; the marker stays on disk
for audit but no longer protects the manifest after that
moment. Useful for time-bounded debugging windows
("--until 14d") or finite litigation periods
("--until 2027-01-01").

.PP
--until accepts:
  - duration shorthand: "30d", "2w", "12h", "45m"
  - absolute time:      "2027-01-01T00:00:00Z" (RFC3339) or
                        "2027-01-01" (date only, midnight UTC)


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for add

.PP
\fB--holder\fP=""
	who placed the hold (free-form; appears in the marker for audit)

.PP
\fB--reason\fP=""
	why the hold was placed (free-form; appears in the marker for audit)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL — must already exist (required)

.PP
\fB--until\fP=""
	auto-expire the hold at this time (e.g. '30d', '2w', '2027-01-01'); empty = indefinite


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-hold(1)\fP
