.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-wal-prune - Delete WAL segment manifests no kept backup can use for recovery


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage wal prune  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Walk wal/// and delete segment manifests
whose end_lsn is below the oldest non-tombstoned backup's
start_lsn (the "frontier"). Segments at or after the frontier are
needed for PITR and stay.

.PP
Default mode is --dry-run; pass --apply to actually delete.

.PP
--keep-since  adds a time-based floor: segments whose
CreatedAt is newer than now()-keep-since are preserved even when
their end_lsn is below the LSN frontier. Use this to enforce a
"keep at least N days of WAL" policy on top of the LSN-based
primary rule (the plan's keep_wal_days).

.PP
Chunks are NOT deleted by this command. Run 'pg_hardstorage repo
gc --apply' afterwards to reclaim the now-orphan chunk bytes.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--apply\fP[=false]
	actually delete the candidate segments (default: dry-run)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for prune

.PP
\fB--keep-since\fP=0s
	keep WAL segments newer than now- regardless of the LSN rule (e.g. 14d → 336h)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (file://, s3://, ...) — must already exist (required)

.PP
\fB--tombstone-grace\fP=24h0m0s
	keep a just-tombstoned backup's WAL until its tombstone ages past this, so a backup undelete within the window can still recover it (matches repo gc); pass 0 to disable


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-wal(1)\fP
