.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-audit-search - Query audit events with filters


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage audit search [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
search walks the audit chain and returns events matching
the supplied filters. Filters AND-combine: an event must match
every non-zero criterion to be included.

.PP
Common forensic queries:

.PP
# Everything in the last 24h, newest first
  audit search --repo  --since 24h --reverse

.PP
# Every backup-namespace action against db1
  audit search --repo  --deployment db1 --action-prefix backup.

.PP
# Just the deletes of one specific backup
  audit search --repo  --backup-id db1.full.20260501T0900Z

.PP
# Anything done by an operator whose email contains "ops@"
  audit search --repo  --actor-contains ops@

.PP
--action vs --action-prefix: the former is the strict match
("backup.delete" only); the latter is the namespace-loose match
("backup." captures backup.create, backup.delete, backup.undelete).
Pass both for the strictest possible match (the strict --action
must share the loose --action-prefix or no events match).

.PP
--reverse + --limit returns the N most-recent matching events,
which is the natural "what happened recently?" pagination.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--action\fP=""
	filter on exact action match (e.g. 'backup.create')

.PP
\fB--action-prefix\fP=""
	filter on action namespace prefix (e.g. 'backup.' captures backup.*)

.PP
\fB--actor\fP=""
	filter on exact actor match

.PP
\fB--actor-contains\fP=""
	filter on substring match against actor (partial-principal lookup)

.PP
\fB--backup-id\fP=""
	filter on exact backup-id match against the event Subject

.PP
\fB--deployment\fP=""
	filter on exact deployment match against the event Subject

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for search

.PP
\fB--limit\fP=0
	cap the number of returned events (0 = no cap); combine with --reverse for the N most-recent

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--reverse\fP[=false]
	yield newest-first (commit order otherwise)

.PP
\fB--since\fP=""
	include events at or after this time (RFC3339 absolute or duration like 24h, 7d)

.PP
\fB--tenant\fP=""
	filter on exact tenant match

.PP
\fB--until\fP=""
	include events strictly before this time (same format as --since)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-audit(1)\fP
