.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-repo-init - Create a new repository at the given URL


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage repo init  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Initialise a new pg_hardstorage repository at the given URL.

.PP
Supported schemes: file://, s3:///

.PP
The operation is atomic and race-safe: if two processes init the same
URL concurrently, exactly one wins and the other receives a conflict
error.

.PP
WORM (write-once-read-many):

.EX
--worm-mode {compliance|governance} \\
--worm-retention <duration>     # 7y, 30d, 8760h
.EE

.PP
Records a retention policy in HSREPO that propagates to every
committed object's PUT (chunks, manifests, replicas, audit events).
Compliance mode is the regulatory-grade posture (even root
credentials cannot delete before the deadline). Governance mode
allows IAM principals with the BypassGovernance permission to
delete. WORM is set at init time only — flipping it on later
would produce a mixed-fleet situation operators can't reason about.

.PP
Retention units: y (365-day years), d (days), h (hours), m (minutes).

.PP
Compression:

.EX
--compression {fast|balanced|max}
.EE

.PP
Picks the zstd encoder level for new chunks.  Profiling under a
write-heavy workload (10 GB pgbench seed + sustained UPDATE load)
showed the original default ("balanced", ~zstd level 7) burned
~40% of pg_hardstorage CPU.

.PP
fast     ~zstd level 3.  Halves zstd CPU; ~10-15% larger on disk.
           Recommended for write-heavy clusters where wal-stream
           CPU matters more than disk bytes.
  balanced ~zstd level 7.  The default.  Sweet spot for
           the median operator.
  max      ~zstd level 11.  2-3x more CPU than balanced; ~5%
           smaller on disk.  Archive-tier backups read rarely.

.PP
Set at init time and not changed after.  A repo holding a mix of
levels still reads back fine — the decoder handles every level —
but the operator's "what does my CPU/disk trade-off look like?"
answer is more legible when the level is stable across the repo.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--compression\fP=""
	zstd encoder level: fast | balanced | max (default: balanced)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for init

.PP
\fB--worm-mode\fP=""
	WORM retention mode: compliance | governance (set with --worm-retention)

.PP
\fB--worm-retention\fP=""
	WORM retention duration: e.g. 7y, 30d, 8760h (required with --worm-mode)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-repo(1)\fP
