.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-jit - Just-in-time access tokens for break-glass operations


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage jit [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Manage JIT (just-in-time) access tokens.

.PP
JIT tokens are time-bound elevated grants signed with the
operator's ed25519 signing key.  Use case: an operator under
supervised access needs to perform a destructive operation
(kms shred, repo gc --apply, etc.) without holding a permanent
elevated token.  An admin issues a short-TTL token scoped to
the specific operation; the operator passes the token to the
destructive command; the audit chain records both issuance and
consumption.

.PP
Operationally:

.EX
# admin issues a 1-hour token for a single shred
pg_hardstorage jit issue ops@acme.example \\
    --scope kms.shred --duration 1h \\
    --reason "GDPR Art. 17 erasure request #4421" \\
    --repo s3://acme

# operator consumes (future commit will wire --jit-token
# into kms shred + other destructive commands)
pg_hardstorage kms shred --repo s3://acme \\
    --confirm-keyring <keyring-dir> --require-approval <id> --yes

# admin lists current tokens
pg_hardstorage jit list --repo s3://acme

# admin revokes if needed
pg_hardstorage jit revoke <token-id> --reason "..."
.EE


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for jit


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-jit-issue(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-jit-list(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-jit-revoke(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-jit-show(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-jit-verify(1)\fP
