.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-partial-dump - Restore + start sandbox PG + pg_dump SQL for selected tables


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage partial dump  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Run a full pipeline:
  1. Restore the backup into a temp directory.
  2. Start a local sandbox PG instance against that data dir
     (unix socket only — no TCP, no port collisions).
  3. Run pg_dump for the requested tables.
  4. Stop PG and remove the temp dir.

.PP
The SQL is written to --sql-file (or stdout if --sql-file is empty).
Operator-friendly redirection: pipe stdout into a file or psql
directly. (--sql-file avoids shadowing the global -o/--output JSON
output flag; the SQL stream is logically separate from the
structured Result envelope which still rides on stderr/stdout per
-o.)

.PP
--data-only emits only INSERT/COPY statements (no DDL).

.PP
Requires pg_ctl and pg_dump on PATH (use --staging-dir to choose
where the temporary restore lives — default is system temp).

.PP
This is the SQL-emitting half of partial restore the plan
documented as deferred. It pairs with \fBpartial restore\fR
(file-extraction half) — operators who want SQL run dump; those
who want a PGDATA tree run restore.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--backup\fP="latest"
	backup ID, or \fBlatest\fR

.PP
\fB--data-only\fP[=false]
	pass --data-only to pg_dump (no DDL, just INSERT/COPY)

.PP
\fB--database\fP="postgres"
	database containing the requested tables; pg_dump connects to exactly one database, so a table in another database needs its name here (issue #97)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for dump

.PP
\fB--kms-config\fP=[]
	cloud KMS provider config for a cloud-KMS-encrypted backup (e.g. region=eu-central-1,endpoint=...); empty uses ambient credentials

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--skip-version-check\fP[=false]
	bypass the data-dir vs pg_ctl major-version pre-flight (only for operators running heterogeneous fleets where compatibility was validated some other way)

.PP
\fB--sql-file\fP=""
	write the dumped SQL here; empty streams to stdout (named --sql-file to avoid shadowing the global --output flag)

.PP
\fB--staging-dir\fP=""
	directory the temporary restore lives under (default: system temp)

.PP
\fB--tables\fP=""
	comma-separated qualified tables (required, e.g. public.users,public.events)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-partial(1)\fP
