.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-timetable-emit - Print (or directly install) pg_timetable SQL for the cron-friendly housekeeping commands


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage timetable emit [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Emit a SELECT timetable.add_job(...) block per scheduled
operation. Two modes:

.PP
Print to stdout (default):
    pg_hardstorage timetable emit --repo s3://acme/backups --deployment db1 \\
        | psql -d timetable_admin

.PP
Apply directly to a pg_timetable database:
    pg_hardstorage timetable emit --repo s3://acme/backups --deployment db1 \\
        --apply --pg-connection "postgres://timetable@host/timetable"

.PP
Each job uses pg_timetable's PROGRAM kind with a JSONB argv (no
shell escaping hazards). The default cadence matches what the
project's CHANGELOG documents for each command:

.EX
repo scrub --sample-percent 1   hourly
wal audit                       hourly
anomaly check                   daily
wal prune --apply               daily
repo gc --apply                 weekly
repo scrub --full               quarterly
gameday report                  quarterly
.EE

.PP
Use --include / --exclude to subset; --prefix to namespace the job
names (default: pg\fIhardstorage\fP).

.PP
When --apply is set, the command:
  1. Connects to --pg-connection and pre-flights the timetable schema.
  2. Wraps everything in a single Go-managed transaction.
  3. (Default) DELETEs existing jobs whose chain_name starts with
     --prefix, so re-applies are idempotent. Pass --replace=false
     to fail-on-duplicate instead.
  4. Calls timetable.add_job for each job with parameter binding
     (no SQL string interpolation of operator-supplied values).

.PP
Targets pg_timetable v5; for other versions, the printed SQL is a
starting point operators adapt.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--apply\fP[=false]
	actually install the jobs into pg_timetable (requires --pg-connection)

.PP
\fB--binary\fP="pg_hardstorage"
	path to the pg_hardstorage binary the scheduled jobs invoke

.PP
\fB--deployment\fP=""
	deployment name (required for per-deployment jobs: wal audit, wal prune, anomaly check)

.PP
\fB--exclude\fP=""
	comma-separated job names (without prefix) to exclude

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for emit

.PP
\fB--include\fP=""
	comma-separated job names (without prefix) to include; empty = all

.PP
\fB--pg-connection\fP=""
	libpq DSN for the pg_timetable installation (required with --apply)

.PP
\fB--prefix\fP="pg\fIhardstorage\fP"
	job-name prefix for namespacing in pg_timetable

.PP
\fB--replace\fP[=true]
	with --apply: DELETE existing chains whose name starts with --prefix before adding (default true)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required; substituted into every job's argv)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-timetable(1)\fP
