.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-forecast - Capacity-planning + cost-projection report


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage forecast  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
forecast walks the repository's manifest history, fits an
ordinary-least-squares linear regression to the per-day
cumulative-bytes series for each deployment, and projects forward
to the configured horizons (defaults: 30d / 90d / 365d).  The
report includes per-deployment forecasts, a fleet-wide rollup, an
optional cost projection, and growth-anomaly detection.

.PP
Window:
  --baseline-window DURATION  default 90d.  Backups stopped before
                              this window don't influence the
                              regression but still count toward
                              the manifest total.
  --horizon DURATION          repeatable; defaults to 30d, 90d, 365d.

.PP
Cost projection (opt-in):
  --price-per-gb-month F      monthly $/GiB rate.  We multiply the
                              fleet projection by this; cloud
                              tariffs include request fees + egress
                              + lifecycle classes that the
                              operator's billing system handles.
  --currency LABEL            default USD.
  --pricing-model LABEL       free-form ("s3-standard",
                              "s3-ia", "gcs-coldline"); recorded
                              in the report for transparency.

.PP
Output formats:
  --format json     (default) — JSON body, the v1 contract.
  --format markdown — forensics-grade GFM Markdown rendering.
                      Same shape as compliance report.

.PP
Skip flags:
  --no-fleet        suppress the fleet rollup
  --no-anomalies    suppress the anomaly-detection pass

.PP
The forecast is a planning tool, not a guarantee.  Confidence per
deployment is reported (high/medium/low/insufficient) so the
operator can apply their own quality threshold.  Read-only; safe
at any cadence.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--baseline-window\fP=""
	baseline window duration (e.g. 90d, 30d, 168h); default 90d

.PP
\fB--currency\fP="USD"
	currency label for the cost section

.PP
\fB--deployment\fP=""
	restrict the forecast to one deployment (fleet rollup still covers all)

.PP
\fB--format\fP="json"
	output format for the report body: json | markdown

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for forecast

.PP
\fB--horizon\fP=[]
	projection horizon (repeatable, e.g. --horizon 30d --horizon 365d); default: 30d, 90d, 365d

.PP
\fB--no-anomalies\fP[=false]
	skip anomaly detection

.PP
\fB--no-fleet\fP[=false]
	skip the fleet rollup

.PP
\fB--price-per-gb-month\fP=0
	monthly $/GiB rate for the cost projection (opt-in; 0 = no cost section)

.PP
\fB--pricing-model\fP=""
	free-form pricing-model label (e.g. s3-standard) recorded in the cost section

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (positional  also accepted)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP
