.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage - PostgreSQL backup, done right.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
pg_hardstorage is an enterprise-grade PostgreSQL backup tool.

.PP
Resilience, compliance, simplicity, and scale-spanning (10 GB to 100+ TB)
are the design north stars. WAL streaming over the replication protocol is
the central data plane. Apache 2.0.

.PP
Every command is a real implementation (no scaffolding stubs).
The advanced surfaces — gRPC, OIDC + RBAC, advise+execute LLM mode,
sandbox-PG runtime — extend per docs/SPEC.md.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for pg_hardstorage

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-agent(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-anomaly(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-approval(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-audit(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-backup(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-capacity(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-changelog(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-classify(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-compat(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-completion(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-compliance(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-cost(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-db(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-demo(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-deployment(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-doctor(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-dsa(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-explain(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-fleet(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-forecast(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-gameday(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-glossary(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-hold(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-init(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-insider(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-integrity(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-jit(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-kms(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-lint(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-list(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-llm(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-logical(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-logs(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-manifest(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-notify(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-partial(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-patroni(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-plugin(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-recovery(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-redact(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-repair(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-repo(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-residency(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-restore(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-rotate(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-runbook(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-schedule(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-server(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-show(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-slo(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-standby(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-status(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-threshold(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-timetable(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-timetravel(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-verify(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-version(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-wal(1)\fP
