.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-repo-replicate - Copy committed manifests + chunks from a source repo to a replica repo


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage repo replicate --from  --to  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
replicate copies every committed (non-tombstoned) manifest from
--from to --to, plus every chunk those manifests reference.

.PP
Idempotent: chunks and manifests already at --to are skipped via
Stat / IfNotExists, so re-running the same replicate is safe and
cheap.

.PP
The destination repo MUST already exist (use 'repo init \&' first).
Replicate only ADDS to the destination — it never initialises one and
never prunes (use 'repo gc' on the destination if you want to trim).

.PP
Tombstoned backups are not replicated. The replica is for surviving
loss of the primary, not for resurrecting deleted backups.

.PP
By default WAL segment manifests (and their chunks) are NOT copied.
Pass --include-wal for full WAL redundancy in the replica region.

.PP
Bandwidth shaping (mutually exclusive):
  --max-mbps N         constant cap of N megabits per second
  --schedule     time-of-day windows; e.g.
                       "Mon-Fri,09:00-18:00=50mbps;Sat-Sun,00:00-23:59=200mbps"
                       Times are UTC. Outside any declared window
                       traffic is unbounded. Rates are 0/mbps/kbps.

.PP
Both forms wrap the destination's storage plugin with a token-
bucket. The schedule is consulted per-acquire so a window
transition takes effect mid-run.

.PP
This is the implementation: a one-shot command. Schedule it via
pg_timetable or cron at whatever cadence matches your egress budget
and target RPO for the replica region.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--dry-run\fP[=false]
	Compute the work but write nothing to the destination

.PP
\fB--from\fP=""
	Source repo URL (must already exist)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for replicate

.PP
\fB--include-wal\fP[=false]
	Also replicate wal/// segment manifests and their chunks

.PP
\fB--max-mbps\fP=0
	Cap upload bandwidth to N megabits per second (default 0 = unbounded). Token-bucket shared across the run.

.PP
\fB--schedule\fP=""
	Time-of-day windows for bandwidth shaping; e.g. "Mon-Fri,09:00-18:00=50mbps". Mutually exclusive with --max-mbps.

.PP
\fB--to\fP=""
	Destination repo URL (must already exist; bootstrap with 'repo init')


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-repo(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-repo-replicate-verify(1)\fP
