.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-compliance-report - Generate a time-windowed compliance report


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage compliance report  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Walks the repository over the named time window and produces a
structured report covering:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Backup activity (per-deployment + per-type counts; window-edge
timestamps).
.IP \(bu 2
Encryption coverage (% of in-window backups encrypted; KEK ref
breakdown; schemes used).
.IP \(bu 2
Verification coverage (verify.* audit events; per-deployment
runs, oldest/last).
.IP \(bu 2
KEK lifecycle (kms.rotate / kms.shred events with actor / refs
/ tenant / timestamp).
.IP \(bu 2
Approval workflow (requests created; destructive ops executed
in window).
.IP \(bu 2
Holds (hold.add / hold.remove / hold.expire counts).
.IP \(bu 2
Replica completeness (windowed primaries vs windowed replica
copies; unreplicated count).
.IP \(bu 2
Audit chain (events in window; anchor count + last-anchor age;
full chain-integrity verification result).
.IP \(bu 2
WORM mode + retention from HSREPO.

.RE

.PP
Window:
  --since   duration ("30d", "90d", "168h") OR RFC3339 timestamp.
            Default: now - 30 days.
  --until   same form. Default: now.

.PP
Format:
  --format json     (default) — JSON body, the v1 contract.
  --format markdown — forensics-grade Markdown, GFM tables, with
                      compliance-control hints next to each section
                      (e.g. SOC 2 CC6.7, ISO 27001 A.8.13). The text
                      renderer is the same when --output is text.

.PP
Sections are independently optional via --no-* flags so a fast
dashboard run skips the expensive walks. Read-only by construction;
safe at any cadence.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--deployment\fP=""
	restrict windowed sections to one deployment (repo-wide sections still cover everything)

.PP
\fB--format\fP="json"
	output format for the report body: json | markdown

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for report

.PP
\fB--no-approvals\fP[=false]
	skip the approval-workflow section

.PP
\fB--no-backups\fP[=false]
	skip the backup-activity section

.PP
\fB--no-chain\fP[=false]
	skip the audit-chain section

.PP
\fB--no-chain-verify\fP[=false]
	keep the chain section's event/anchor counts but skip the (potentially expensive) full VerifyChain pass

.PP
\fB--no-encryption\fP[=false]
	skip the encryption-coverage section

.PP
\fB--no-holds\fP[=false]
	skip the holds section

.PP
\fB--no-kek-lifecycle\fP[=false]
	skip the KEK-lifecycle section

.PP
\fB--no-replicas\fP[=false]
	skip the replica-completeness section

.PP
\fB--no-verification\fP[=false]
	skip the verification-coverage section

.PP
\fB--no-worm\fP[=false]
	skip the WORM section

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (positional  also accepted)

.PP
\fB--since\fP=""
	window start: duration (24h, 30d) or RFC3339 timestamp; default = now - 30d

.PP
\fB--until\fP=""
	window end: duration or RFC3339 timestamp; default = now


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-compliance(1)\fP
