.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-audit-export-bundle - Export a signed evidence bundle of audit events


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage audit export-bundle --repo  --out  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Walks the audit chain over the requested window, packages
the events + chain proof + operator's public key into a gzipped
tarball, and signs the bundle with the operator's ed25519 key.

.PP
The output is a forensics-grade artifact suitable for compliance
review.  An auditor verifies via \fBpg_hardstorage audit verify-bundle\fR
or via the canonical Go API in \fBinternal/audit.VerifyBundle\fR\&.

.PP
Window:
  --since DURATION_OR_RFC3339   lower-bound on event timestamp
  --until DURATION_OR_RFC3339   upper-bound (exclusive)

.PP
Filters (all optional):
  --action ACTION              exact match (e.g. backup.create)
  --action-prefix PREFIX       dotted-namespace prefix (e.g. backup.)
  --actor ACTOR                exact match
  --tenant TENANT              exact match
  --deployment NAME            exact match
  --backup-id ID               exact match

.PP
Other:
  --include-anchors            also include anchor history
  --operator NAME              record operator identity in manifest

.PP
Output:
  --out PATH                   destination .tar.gz file (required)

.PP
Read-only against the source repo.  Safe at any cadence.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--action\fP=""
	exact-match audit action filter

.PP
\fB--action-prefix\fP=""
	dotted-namespace prefix filter

.PP
\fB--actor\fP=""
	exact-match actor filter

.PP
\fB--backup-id\fP=""
	exact-match backup ID filter

.PP
\fB--deployment\fP=""
	exact-match deployment filter

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for export-bundle

.PP
\fB--include-anchors\fP[=false]
	also include the anchor history in the bundle

.PP
\fB--operator\fP=""
	record operator identity in the bundle manifest

.PP
\fB--out\fP=""
	destination .tar.gz file (required)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--since\fP=""
	lower-bound on event timestamp (e.g. 30d, RFC3339)

.PP
\fB--tenant\fP=""
	exact-match tenant filter

.PP
\fB--until\fP=""
	upper-bound on event timestamp (exclusive)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-audit(1)\fP
