.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-wal-fetch - Fetch one WAL segment from the repository (restore_command shim)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage wal fetch    [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Reassemble one PostgreSQL WAL segment from the repository's
content-addressed chunk store into \&.

.PP
PostgreSQL invokes this command from restore_command during recovery;
the canonical configuration line is:

.PP
restore_command = 'pg_hardstorage wal fetch  %f %p --repo \&'

.PP
The deployment + repo identify the source; %f and %p are PG's
substitutions for the segment file name and the target path
respectively.

.PP
Exit codes:
  0  - segment retrieved and written
  6  - segment not in repo (ExitNotFound)
  >0 - other error (network, repo missing, etc.)

.PP
IMPORTANT: at end-of-archive this command exits 6, NOT 1. PostgreSQL's
postmaster treats any restore_command exit other than 0/1 as a crash
and restarts recovery, which loops forever once the cluster is caught
up. The canonical restore_command above must therefore map 6 -> 1 (the
"no more WAL, stop and promote" signal PG expects). The line that
\fBpg_hardstorage restore\fR writes does this automatically via the
shim '...; ec=$?; [ $ec = 6 ] && exit 1 || exit $ec'. If you hand-write
restore_command, you MUST include that 6->1 mapping yourself.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for fetch

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (file://, s3://, ...) — must already exist (required)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-wal(1)\fP
