.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-partial-inspect - Report which manifest entries a partial restore would touch


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage partial inspect  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Walk the named backup's manifest and project file-level statistics.

.PP
Without --tables, the output is the manifest summary: file/chunk
counts + total logical bytes — answers "how big is this backup?"

.PP
With --tables (a comma-separated list of qualified names), inspect
also cross-references the manifest to find each table's heap file:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
--tables alone: report each table's expected heap path
(computed from pg_relation_filepath conventions: base//)
matched against manifest FileEntries when possible.
.IP \(bu 2
--tables AND --pg-connection: queries the live source DB's
pg_class for the actual relfilenode, then matches against the
manifest. This is the path — gives the operator the
concrete "X bytes across Y chunks" estimate for each table
before the partial restore runs.

.RE

.PP
A failed pg_class lookup surfaces as a structured notice rather
than failing the inspect; the manifest-summary fields stay valid.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--backup\fP="latest"
	backup ID, or \fBlatest\fR for the most recent committed backup

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for inspect

.PP
\fB--pg-connection\fP=""
	libpq connection string — when set, looks up each --tables relfilenode in pg_class and matches against the manifest

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--tables\fP=""
	comma-separated table list (qualified, e.g. public.users)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-partial(1)\fP
