.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-backup-compare - Diff two backups — file & chunk overlap, size delta, top-N changed files


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage backup compare    [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
compare reads two manifests and reports their differences:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
File-level: which files exist in only A / only B / both / changed
.IP \(bu 2
Chunk-level: shared / A-only / B-only chunks (CAS-deduped, by hash)
.IP \(bu 2
Logical bytes: total per side + delta + shared (unchanged) bytes
.IP \(bu 2
Top-N file deltas: the largest |size| changes, ranked

.RE

.PP
This is metadata-only — chunks are NOT fetched. Fast even on
huge backups.

.PP
Use cases:
  - Incremental forensics ("why is this backup so big?")
  - Dedup-ratio surprises ("is the chain still sharing chunks?")
  - Rotation audit ("does the new full share the right chunks?")

.PP
Both backups must exist and verify against the local keyring.
Tombstoned (soft-deleted) manifests are not directly readable —
pass --include-deleted equivalents are NOT supported here; use
the per-side view via \fBbackup show --include-deleted\fR first.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for compare

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (file://, s3://, ...) — must already exist (required)

.PP
\fB--top-n\fP=20
	cap the top-file-deltas list at this many entries (default 20)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-backup(1)\fP
