.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-backup-delete - Soft-delete a specific backup (chunks reclaimed by next repo gc)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage backup delete   [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
delete tombstones the named backup. The manifest body and
chunks remain on disk until the next \fBrepo gc --apply\fR cycle
clears unreferenced chunks; this split is deliberate so an operator
who deletes the wrong backup has time to recover.

.PP
If the backup has live incremental descendants the delete refuses
(chain-protection: tombstoning an anchor would leave its children
un-restorable). Pass --cascade to drain the entire chain leaf-first
in one operation; every tombstoned manifest is recorded in the
audit chain, and the same approval (--require-approval) gates the
whole cascade rather than each step.

.PP
The destructive op gate (--require-approval) is strongly recommended
for operator-initiated deletes outside of retention. Approval Op
must be \fBbackup.delete\fR and Target must be the backup ID.

.PP
For automated deletion driven by retention policy, use
\fBpg_hardstorage rotate\fR instead — it derives a structured
soft-delete plan from the configured policy.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--cascade\fP[=false]
	also delete every incremental descendant of this backup, leaf-first

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for delete

.PP
\fB--reason\fP=""
	free-form reason captured in the tombstone + audit chain

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--require-approval\fP=""
	approval request ID that must be in approved state for backup.delete + this backup ID (n-of-m gate; strongly recommended)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-backup(1)\fP
