.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-repo-replicate-verify - Verify a replica repo is consistent with its source


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage repo replicate verify --from  --to  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
repo replicate verify walks the source repository's manifests +
chunks and asserts each is present at the replica with matching
content.  The output is one of three verdicts:

.PP
consistent  — replica matches primary
  drifted     — present-but-mismatched content (re-replicate)
  broken      — missing keys (re-replicate AND investigate)

.PP
Default is Stat-only: O(N keys) Stat calls; detects "missing"
+ size-mismatch.  \fB--deep\fR adds a body-fetch + byte-compare
pass on every considered key, catching same-size-different-bytes
drift.  Slow; suitable for periodic deep scrub, not per-PR.

.PP
Read-only against both repos.  Both \fB--from\fR and \fB--to\fR MUST
already exist.

.PP
Output formats:
  --format json     (default) — JSON body, the v1 contract.
  --format markdown — forensics-grade GFM rendering.

.PP
Exit-code mapping:
  0  — verdict=consistent
  9  — verdict=drifted OR broken (verify-failed namespace).
       The body still renders to stdout for diagnosis; the
       error summary on stderr names the verdict.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--deep\fP[=false]
	fetch + byte-compare both sides (catches same-size drift; slow)

.PP
\fB--deployment\fP=""
	restrict the walk to one deployment (default: all)

.PP
\fB--format\fP="json"
	output format: json | markdown

.PP
\fB--from\fP=""
	primary (source) repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for verify

.PP
\fB--include-wal\fP[=false]
	also verify wal//... segment manifests

.PP
\fB--to\fP=""
	replica (destination) repository URL (required)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-repo-replicate(1)\fP
