.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-repo-gc - Reclaim space — sweep chunks no manifest references


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage repo gc  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
gc walks every committed manifest, builds the set of referenced
chunk hashes, and lists chunks under chunks/sha256/... that aren't
in that set. Without --apply, the operation is a dry-run and reports
how much space WOULD be freed. With --apply, the orphans are
deleted via the CAS.

.PP
Tombstoned manifests (soft-deleted by retention) are excluded from
the reference walk ONCE they age past --tombstone-grace.  Default
grace is 24h: an operator who soft-deletes a backup, notices the
mistake, and runs \fBbackup undelete\fR within 24h gets a
fully-restorable backup back even if --apply ran in between.
Operators willing to accept the audit-flagged race (v23 #3) can
pass --tombstone-grace 0 to restore the historical immediate-
collection behaviour.

.PP
Either pass  as a positional, or via --repo. The latter form
keeps the command shape consistent with other subcommands (rotate,
list, etc.) for scripting.

.PP
--require-approval : gate --apply on an existing n-of-m
approval request. The approval's Op must be \fBrepo.gc\fR and its
Target must be the URL being GC'd; otherwise --apply is refused at
the gate. Dry-runs (no --apply) don't need an approval — they read
only. See \fBpg_hardstorage approval\fR\&.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--apply\fP[=false]
	actually delete the orphan chunks (default: dry-run)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for gc

.PP
\fB--min-chunk-age\fP=24h0m0s
	minimum age an unreferenced chunk (and stale staging file) must reach before --apply reaps it; defends an in-flight backup whose manifest hasn't committed yet (pass 0 to disable)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL — must already exist (positional  is also accepted)

.PP
\fB--require-approval\fP=""
	approval request ID that must be in approved state for repo.gc + this URL (n-of-m gate; --apply only)

.PP
\fB--tombstone-grace\fP=24h0m0s
	minimum tombstone age before the manifest's chunks become GC candidates (defends Undelete-after-delete; pass 0 to disable)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-repo(1)\fP
