.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-recovery-drill - Run a full restore-and-verify drill against a real backup


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage recovery drill  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Pick a backup, restore into a temporary target dir, run
pg_verifybackup against the restored data dir, and tear down.
Reports RTO actual + verify outcome.

.PP
The drill exercises the full critical path that a real recovery
would take.  Read-only against the source repo; writes only to a
temporary target dir which is removed on completion (unless
--keep is set).

.PP
Backup selection:
   | latest    pick the freshest committed backup
            pick the named manifest (must be visible)

.PP
Verify control:
  --pg-major NN         override the sandbox image (default: derive from manifest)
  --image IMG           override 'postgres:\&' (air-gapped registries)
  --allow-skip-verify   accept a Partial verdict when pg_verifybackup
                        skips (e.g. older manifest with no on-disk
                        backup_manifest)
  --skip-verify         strongest opt-out — don't even try to spin up
                        the sandbox.  Returns Partial verdict with
                        the restore-only result.

.PP
Output formats:
  --format json     (default) — JSON body, the v1 contract.
  --format markdown — forensics-grade GFM rendering.

.PP
The drill requires Docker on the operator host (for the sandbox).
For Docker-free runs, pass --skip-verify; the report's RTO actual
+ restore-phase detail are still useful for capacity planning.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--allow-skip-verify\fP[=false]
	accept a Partial verdict when pg_verifybackup skips

.PP
\fB--backup-id\fP=""
	explicit backup ID to drill against (default: latest)

.PP
\fB--format\fP="json"
	output format: json | markdown

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for drill

.PP
\fB--image\fP=""
	override 'postgres:\&' sandbox image (air-gapped)

.PP
\fB--keep\fP[=false]
	keep the temporary target dir after the drill (for inspection)

.PP
\fB--no-encryption\fP[=false]
	don't wire the local-keystore KEK resolver (drill an unencrypted backup or one whose KEK lives elsewhere)

.PP
\fB--no-history\fP[=false]
	suppress the auto-persist of a slim drill history entry into recovery/drills/

.PP
\fB--operator\fP=""
	record the operator identity in the history entry (free-form; cron jobs typically pass scheduler:)

.PP
\fB--pg-major\fP=""
	override sandbox PG major version (default: derive from manifest)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--rto-seconds\fP=0
	RTO target in seconds for actual-vs-target comparison

.PP
\fB--skip-verify\fP[=false]
	don't run the sandbox verify at all (Docker-free run)

.PP
\fB--temp-base\fP=""
	parent directory for the temporary target dir (default: $TMPDIR)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-recovery(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-recovery-drill-history(1)\fP
