.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-insider - Insider-threat detection: scan the audit log for unusual patterns


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage insider [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Detect insider-threat patterns in the audit log:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
novel_principal           an actor not seen in baseline appears in target
.IP \(bu 2
first_destructive_action  an actor performs a destructive action they
                          never performed in baseline (CRITICAL)
.IP \(bu 2
off_hours_destructive     destructive action at an UTC hour the actor
                          has never used in baseline
.IP \(bu 2
volume_spike              actor's per-action rate exceeds baseline by
                          the configured factor
.IP \(bu 2
cross_tenant_novel        actor touches a tenant they haven't before
.IP \(bu 2
post_jit_destructive      destructive action within 1 h of a jit.issue
                          (break-glass pattern, NOTICE-level for record)

.RE

.PP
Each scan compares a baseline window (default 30 d) against a target
window (default 24 h).  Findings carry severity, actor, action, the
audit event IDs that triggered them, and a human-readable reason.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for insider


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-insider-list(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-insider-scan(1)\fP, \fBpg_hardstorage-insider-show(1)\fP
