.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-hold-purge-expired - Remove every hold marker whose ExpiresAt is in the past


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage hold purge-expired [] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
purge-expired sweeps expired hold markers. Indefinite
holds (no ExpiresAt) are NEVER touched — they're the legal-hold
default. Active bounded holds (future ExpiresAt) are also untouched.
Only past-expiry markers are reaped.

.PP
Pairs with the \fBhold.expired_present\fR doctor signal: doctor
flags expired markers as an operational hygiene issue; this
command cleans them up in one operation.

.PP
pg_hardstorage hold purge-expired                 # fleet-wide
  pg_hardstorage hold purge-expired db1             # scoped to db1
  pg_hardstorage hold purge-expired --dry-run       # preview, no mutations
  pg_hardstorage hold purge-expired --yes           # actually remove

.PP
Each removal is audit-emitted (\fBhold.purge_expired\fR action) so
the chain has a per-marker record. --dry-run emits nothing —
preview is a read-only operation.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--dry-run\fP[=false]
	preview the markers that would be removed (no mutations, no audit emits)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for purge-expired

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL — must already exist (required)

.PP
\fB--yes\fP[=false]
	confirm bulk removal — required unless --dry-run is set


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-hold(1)\fP
