.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-recovery-windows - List every PITR window available for a deployment


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage recovery windows  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Walks every committed backup for the deployment and reports
its PITR window:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
EarliestRestoreLSN = the backup's stop_lsn
.IP \(bu 2
LatestRestoreLSN   = highest archived WAL LSN on the
                     backup's timeline (empty if no WAL is
                     archived; PITR isn't possible past the
                     base in that case)
.IP \(bu 2
Gaps               = persisted gapstate records + manifest-
                     embedded wal_gaps overlapping the window

.RE

.PP
The --include-older-than flag bounds the walk: useful for
"show me windows from the last 30 days".

.PP
Output formats:
  --format json     (default) — JSON body, the v1 contract.
  --format markdown — forensics-grade GFM Markdown rendering.

.PP
Read-only; safe at any cadence.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--format\fP="json"
	output format for the report body: json | markdown

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for windows

.PP
\fB--include-older-than\fP=""
	limit the walk to backups within this duration (e.g. 30d, 90d); empty = all

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-recovery(1)\fP
