.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-rotate - Apply retention policy to a deployment (or all)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage rotate [] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Classify each backup as kept or to-be-soft-deleted per the chosen
retention policy, then optionally apply the decision.

.PP
Three policies ship today:

.PP
gfs (default): grandfather-father-son.
    --keep-daily 7      keep one backup per UTC calendar day, last 7
    --keep-weekly 4     keep one backup per ISO calendar week, last 4
    --keep-monthly 12   keep one backup per UTC calendar month, last 12
    --keep-yearly 5     keep one backup per UTC calendar year, last 5

.PP
simple:
    --keep-for 30d      keep every backup younger than this duration

.PP
count:
    --keep-fulls 14     keep the most recent N full backups

.PP
The newest backup is ALWAYS kept regardless of policy output —
operators must never end up with zero backups because of a misset
flag. This is hardcoded; --keep-* lower bounds don't override it.

.PP
Default mode is --dry-run; pass --apply to actually mark manifests.
Soft-deleted manifests get a tombstone marker beside them; the
manifest body and its chunks are NOT removed in this slice (the
chunk-GC pass that reaps unreferenced bytes lands).


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--apply\fP[=false]
	actually soft-delete (default: dry-run)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for rotate

.PP
\fB--keep-daily\fP=7
	GFS: backups kept per UTC day

.PP
\fB--keep-for\fP=720h0m0s
	simple: keep every backup younger than this

.PP
\fB--keep-fulls\fP=14
	count: keep the N most recent fulls

.PP
\fB--keep-monthly\fP=12
	GFS: backups kept per UTC month

.PP
\fB--keep-weekly\fP=4
	GFS: backups kept per ISO week

.PP
\fB--keep-yearly\fP=5
	GFS: backups kept per UTC year

.PP
\fB--policy\fP="gfs"
	retention policy: gfs|simple|count

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (file://, s3://, ...) — must already exist (required)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP
