.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-repair-scrub - Verify chunk integrity (SHA-256 round-trip) across the repo


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage repair scrub [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
repair scrub samples N chunks (default 1000; 0 means every
referenced chunk), re-hashes each one, and reports mismatches.
Mismatches are the "your storage backend has corrupted bytes"
signal — exit code flips to ExitVerifyFailed so monitoring routes
correctly.

.PP
--heal --replica  turns the diagnostic into a remediation:
mismatched chunks get their bytes re-fetched from a replica repo
(the one populated by \fBpg_hardstorage repo replicate\fR) and
re-written locally. The replica's chunk-envelope bytes are byte-
identical to the original (replicate copies verbatim), so a
successful heal restores the local copy to a state where the CAS's
plaintext-SHA round-trip passes again.

.PP
Heal is best-effort: a chunk missing at the replica is reported as
NotAtReplica and the run continues with the next mismatch. Use
--dry-run-heal to see what \fIwould\fP heal without writing.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--heal\fP[=false]
	refetch mismatched chunks from --replica and rewrite them locally

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for scrub

.PP
\fB--limit\fP=1000
	sample size; 0 = full scrub (every chunk)

.PP
\fB--replica\fP=""
	replica repository URL to heal from (required when --heal is set)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL — must already exist (required)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-repair(1)\fP
