.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-verify - Verify a backup's signature and chunks (no restore required)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage verify  [latest|] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
verify reads the named backup's manifest, validates its
signature with the local public key, then SHA-256-round-trips every
referenced chunk via the CAS read path. Encrypted backups are
decrypted in-process using the local KEK; nothing is restored to
disk and no WAL is replayed.

.PP
For the full restore-and-pg_verifybackup verification path, pass
\fB--full\fR (requires Docker locally) or \fB--control-plane <url>\fR to
dispatch a sandbox verify to an agent (Docker on the agent host,
not yours). \fB--control-plane\fR always implies \fB--full\fR semantics —
fast verify doesn't need network round-trips.

.PP
For a much faster pre-flight ("are the chunks still here?"
without the bytes-and-checksums round-trip), pass
\fB--existence-only\fR\&. This Stats every unique chunk instead of
fetching it; useful before \fBbackup undelete\fR (to confirm
chunk-GC hasn't reclaimed the body) or as a 100x-cheaper
sanity check on cold archives. Mismatch on bytes is NOT
detected in this mode — only absence.

.PP
Backup ID:
  - omitted or "latest" → the most recent (by stop time) backup
  - ""        → that exact backup


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--control-plane\fP=""
	control-plane base URL — when set, the command is dispatched there instead of running locally

.PP
\fB--control-plane-ca\fP=""
	PEM file pinning the control plane's TLS server certificate

.PP
\fB--control-plane-client-cert\fP=""
	client certificate for mTLS to the control plane

.PP
\fB--control-plane-client-key\fP=""
	client key for mTLS to the control plane

.PP
\fB--control-plane-poll-secs\fP=1
	poll cadence (seconds) for /v1/jobs/

.PP
\fB--control-plane-token-file\fP=""
	file containing the bearer token for the control plane

.PP
\fB--existence-only\fP[=false]
	only check that each chunk EXISTS (Stat) — skip fetch+decrypt+SHA verification (much faster; useful pre-flight before \fBbackup undelete\fR)

.PP
\fB--full\fP[=false]
	perform a full restore into a Docker sandbox and run pg_verifybackup against it

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for verify

.PP
\fB--kms-config\fP=[]
	cloud KMS provider config for verifying a cloud-KMS-encrypted backup (e.g. region=eu-central-1,endpoint=...); empty uses ambient credentials

.PP
\fB--pg-major\fP=""
	PG major version for the sandbox image (default: derived from the backup's pg_version)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (file://, s3://, ...) — must already exist (required)

.PP
\fB--sample\fP=0
	verify only the first N chunks in hash-sorted order (0 = every referenced chunk)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage(1)\fP
