.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-kms-rotate - Re-wrap every encrypted backup's DEK with a new KEK


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage kms rotate [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Walk every committed (non-tombstoned) backup manifest in the
repo. For each manifest wrapped with --old-kek-ref:

.RS
.IP "  1." 5
Decrypt the wrapped DEK using the bytes at --old-kek-file.
.IP "  2." 5
Re-wrap the DEK using the bytes at --new-kek-file.
.IP "  3." 5
Mutate the manifest's encryption block to record --new-kek-ref
 and the new wrapped_dek; everything else stays bit-identical.
.IP "  4." 5
Re-sign the manifest (the operator's signing keypair is
 unchanged).
.IP "  5." 5
Atomically rewrite the manifest at its repo key (and the
 replica copy if present).

.RE

.PP
Chunks are NOT re-encrypted. Per-chunk keys are derived via HKDF
from the (unchanged) BDEK; rewrapping the DEK leaves every chunk's
bytes untouched. KEK rotation is O(manifest count), not O(chunk
count).

.PP
Multi-tenant safety: only manifests with --old-kek-ref are touched.
Manifests wrapped under different KEK refs (other tenants) are
skipped, not failed. Operators rotating per-tenant KEKs run this
command once per tenant.

.PP
Resumability: a rotation interrupted partway through is safely
re-runnable with the same args. Manifests that were already
rotated (their KEKRef == --new-kek-ref) are counted as
\&'already_rotated' and skipped.

.PP
Default mode is dry-run; pass --apply to actually rewrite. With
--apply, one kms.rotate audit event is emitted per rotated
manifest.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--apply\fP[=false]
	actually rewrite the manifests (default: dry-run)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for rotate

.PP
\fB--new-kek-file\fP=""
	path to the NEW KEK bytes (32 bytes raw); required

.PP
\fB--new-kek-ref\fP=""
	the kek_ref to record on rotated manifests (required)

.PP
\fB--old-kek-file\fP=""
	path to the OLD KEK bytes (32 bytes raw); required

.PP
\fB--old-kek-ref\fP=""
	the kek_ref currently on the manifests to rotate (required)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-kms(1)\fP
