.nh
.TH "PG_HARDSTORAGE" "1" "May 2026" "pg_hardstorage Manual" "pg_hardstorage Manual"

.SH NAME
.PP
pg_hardstorage-recovery-drill-history - List + summarise past drill runs (auto-recorded by \fBrecovery drill\fR)


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage recovery drill history [] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Read-only surface over the auto-persisted drill history.

.PP
Each \fBrecovery drill\fR run writes a slim DrillHistoryEntry into
\fBrecovery/drills/<id>.json\fR in the repo (suppress with
\fB--skip-history\fR).  This command walks them and reports the
list + the rollup summary (pass percent, RTO distribution,
verdict trend, latest verdict + RTO).

.PP
Filtering:
            (positional) restrict to one deployment
  --verdict pass|partial|fail   restrict by verdict
  --since DURATION_OR_RFC3339   lower-bound on generated_at
  --until DURATION_OR_RFC3339   upper-bound on generated_at
  --limit N                     cap returned entries (0 = all)
  --reverse                     newest-first ordering

.PP
Output:
  --format json     (default) — JSON body, the v1 contract
  --format markdown — forensics-grade GFM rendering with the
                      trend table + per-entry table
  --summarize       suppress the per-entry slice; just the
                    summary rollup (cheaper output for
                    dashboards)

.PP
Read-only; safe at any cadence including against WORM-locked
repos.


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--deployment\fP=""
	restrict to one deployment (positional  also accepted)

.PP
\fB--format\fP="json"
	output format: json | markdown

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for history

.PP
\fB--limit\fP=0
	cap returned entries (0 = all)

.PP
\fB--repo\fP=""
	repository URL (required)

.PP
\fB--reverse\fP[=true]
	newest-first ordering (default: true)

.PP
\fB--since\fP=""
	lower-bound on generated_at (e.g. 7d, 30d, RFC3339)

.PP
\fB--summarize\fP[=false]
	suppress the per-entry slice; just the summary rollup

.PP
\fB--until\fP=""
	upper-bound on generated_at (RFC3339)

.PP
\fB--verdict\fP=""
	restrict by verdict: pass | partial | fail


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
.PP
\fB--airgapped\fP[=false]
	refuse outbound endpoints (LLM providers, sinks, OTLP collectors) outside loopback / RFC1918 / explicit airgap.allowlist. Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_AIRGAPPED=1 or \fBairgapped: strict\fR in the config file.

.PP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--config\fP=""
	path to config file (default: XDG/FHS lookup)

.PP
\fB--cpu-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof CPU profile to this path for the duration of the command (\fBgo tool pprof <path>\fR to analyse). Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--mem-profile\fP=""
	write a pprof heap profile to this path at command exit. Off when empty.

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	disable ANSI color in text output

.PP
\fB--on-error-llm\fP[=false]
	on a structured-error failure, drop into the matching LLM helper skill (auto_on_error trigger). Also enabled by PG_HARDSTORAGE_ON_ERROR_LLM=1.

.PP
\fB--otel-endpoint\fP=""
	OpenTelemetry OTLP/HTTP endpoint (e.g. http://otel-collector:4318); empty disables tracing

.PP
\fB--otel-stdout\fP[=false]
	also export OpenTelemetry traces to stderr (useful for dev)

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP=""
	output format: text|json|ndjson|yaml|template|csv|markdown|html|tap|junit|pdf (default: text on TTY, json off-TTY)

.PP
\fB--profile-port\fP=0
	if non-zero, expose net/http/pprof on 127.0.0.1: for live profiling of long-running commands (e.g. \fBgo tool pprof http://127.0.0.1:6060/debug/pprof/profile?seconds=30\fR). Off when zero.

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go text/template applied when --output template (or implied if --template is set without --output)


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpg_hardstorage-recovery-drill(1)\fP
